>> Scott Moss: How do we
make middleware in Next js?
It's really easy.
You just make a file on the root
called middleware, that's it.
So outside of the app folder you
make a file called middleware.
And now this file has the opportunity,
I say opportunity because it
depends on how you configure it.
It has the opportunity to run on every
single request that comes to your app, but
again, it does come down
to how you configure it.
And there are many,
many ways to configure it.
The easiest way, in my opinion,
is just to use the matcher.
So if you export a config object like
this, you can say what paths you
want the middleware to be triggered on,
and it uses a glot pattern.
You can also use regexes, you can also
use exact paths, you can use many
different ways to describe what paths
you want the middleware to operate on.
So we can just put this in here,
and let's just give it a whirl.
So I'll do this and
I'll say, on every path.
And then what I'll do here is, oops,
console log here, I'll just do this,
I'll go back to our app, start it, and
this thing says, wait, invalid.
Let's just do that.
Cool, so
now when I go to the index of our app,
did the log, let's see if it actually log.
I don't,
I don't see my middleware log, maybe,
maybe it doesn't show up here anymore,
I don't know.
I thought that that was gonna show up
there in the server, but I guess not.
Regardless, we're still gonna make
middleware for authenticating our APIs.
Because having to check for, let's say we
wanna have an API key for our developer
API, having to check for that on the code
level for every single route is annoying.
So let's just do that on the middleware.
Globally, it's not the perfect protection
because we still wanna check to make sure
the API key actually belongs to a user,
and maybe they have a paid account and
this and that.
Unless you have that stored on
a edge storage mechanism Edge,
Redis, or something like that.
You still got to go to your source,
your code that talks to your
database that has that information.
So it's not a complete check,
but at least it's checking to see
if you even have it in the header.
And if you do have it in the header,
then we can forward you to the server and
then you can go from there,
if that makes sense, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Does middleware
only work in serverless or
Vercel environments or
does it work standalone?
>> Scott Moss: So, great question.
Almost every one of Vercell's
competitors supports this now, so
it pretty much works.
It's really hard to say where all
these features work because there's n
amount of hosting platforms,
I don't know what they all support.
What I can say is that the leading hosting
platforms like Vercel, Netlify, Railway,
like all these other ones that would
support Next JS also support middleware.
So it's pretty safe to say
if they have Edge Compute,
they probably support
middleware in some way.
Vercel definitely supports it.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so
let's lock down our API.
So what we're gonna do here is we're
gonna match on anything that says API.
And then what we're gonna do is we're
gonna check in here, programming, hey,
the request that came in starts with/API,
we want to grab the authorization header.
If there is no header, get out of here.
Otherwise just pass through,
so let's do that.
So I'll say matcher and I'll say API.
How did I do that?
Path like this.
>> Scott Moss: And
then we can use the request here, and
get the
request.NextUrl.pathname.startswith.
Next URL is not Next js URL,
it's the next URL that
you're trying to go to.
So don't confuse that with Next js URL.
It's the URL that, because remember
this is intercepting something.
So this is the URL that
the request is trying to go to,
that's why it's called Next URL.
So if request nexturl.pathname
startsWith/API,
we want to get the headers
using the standard
getter method on the headers
because it's a set,
>> Scott Moss: Headers and
we can import headers.
So headers dot, or I think we've
got to do like headers dot.
Need to make this async.
Actually, I would I like this better.
I just like arrow functions better.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
Cool, okay, so headers.get
await that authorization.
Yeah, let me make sure I capitalize it.
Cool, so we get the authHeader.
f not authHeader, then what we
wanna do here is just do a 401.
We could also redirect you, but if you're
hitting the API, there's no point of
redirecting your API request,
you're not trying to go to our website,
you're trying to hit our API,
so we'll just send back a 401.
So I'll just copy that.
Get out of here,
you didn't add your API key.
Otherwise we can just say
NextResponse dot, what is it?
Yeah, dot next, keep going.
This is a common pattern in most
middleware implementations that there's
like a next function so
you can continue to go.
Cuz a lot of middleware implementation
has a stack of middleware where you might
have more than one function that runs.
So it's like, go to the next one in the
stack and then it just keeps going next,
and you can think of the handler as
the last piece of middleware in the stack.
So if it keeps going next,
eventually you'll hit the last one.
>> Speaker 3 slow: So
is that next response?
Could we think of that as some
sort of like, singleton or.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, yeah.
>> Speaker 3 slow: Coming out of thin air.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, well,
I'm importing it here.
>> Speaker 3 slow: Right.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, cuz you're like,
we're not instantiating it as a new
instance, it's just like a global.
Yeah, you can think of that.
I mean, I think they kept it that
way because you have response,
which is global.
This is built in.
So they kind of just wanna be
on parity with that, I think,
cuz you can make a new response.
>> Scott Moss: And then from there
there's like methods on here.
So I think they wanted to
elevate theirs to also be
capitalized and whatnot, so yeah.
>> Speaker 4: So yeah, you got headers,
You can grab cookies, I assume too.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
>> Speaker 4: So it's all kind of
operating within the context
of a single request.
It's kinda like we were talking about
yesterday with server functions.
>> Scott Moss: Yep, it's literally
the same thing that you just made, but
think of this as we just made
the methods for get post.
Okay, this is all the verbs.
Every single request that'll come in,
no matter what the verb is, it's gonna
come in here first, I mean, yeah,
I could return JSON here if I want it.
You would never be able to use the API
because I'm only ever gonna return JSON.
So, yeah, it works the same way as that.
The standards for the web is basically,
they're trying to standardize how you do
edge compute versus serverless,
it's all the same.
Now it's all the same code because they
want you to be able to toggle environments
without having to change your code,
which is almost there, maybe not there.
People are taking different approaches
because some things work in node and
will never work in the edge.
I'll talk more about later after this, but
that's kind of where
the standards come from.
It's like it'd be really cool
to be able to run a node but
also run on the edge
without changing my code.
That's not gonna happen,
but that's the dream, yes.
>> Speaker 5: Is there any reason you
need to check the pathnamestartsWith,
because would the matcher
already make that true?
>> Scott Moss: That's a great question.
I wonder if somebody's gonna ask that.
So in this example, no, but you might
have a matcher that has different paths.
In that case, you only wanna
run this logic on that path and
then you have another if statement for
logic on another path.
But yeah, in this case,
because we only have a matcher for this,
we don't actually need this.
But I'm gonna put it there anyway
just in case some person comes
later down the road is like,
you know what, I want to add this to.
I don't wanna check for
user on our pages, I wanna say anything.
I moved everything that's
signed in into Dashboard, so
I wanna check everything in Dashboard.
I wanna do this and
then inside of here I wanna check for
a JWT if it starts with Dashboard.
So that way I can check to see if
there's a user without having to
do the user request in the pages.
So yeah, just future proofing, but
no, there is no exact reason.
>> Speaker 6 lATINO: So
the logic has to be on that same file or
is there a way to spread the logic
into different files and just have it.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, great question.
Yeah, you can spread the logic
into any files you want.
You can import your stuff, bring it
in as long as it's edge compatible.
So again, I wouldn't be able to import
file system and bring it in here,
that would break,
that doesn't work on the edge.
There's a lot of stuff that just works in
node that does not work on the edge, but
yeah, as long as it works on the edge,
yeah,
you can bring it in here from anywhere.
Let's try to run this again.
I still got the same thing cuz maybe I
have authorization in here I think.
I had an authorization header in there,
so try that again.
There we go 401 as soon as I
add in authorization header,
as you saw, we're not really
checking the value right now,
we're just checking to see
if it's in there, it works.
>> Speaker 3 slow: Just observation,
it's interesting to me
that you're returning NextResponse JSON,
then the convention is that
the status is in that JSON object.
So okay, that first parameter is
the actual JSON that you wanna return.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
>> Speaker 3 slow: And then the second
parameter is additional stuff
related to the JSON.
>> Scott Moss: Yep, exactly, yeah.
This is the data that I want to return,
this is the configuration for
the response, yeah.
In the older versions of Next JS with
the response object used to be able to do
something like status, or
status text, or something like that.
And these still exist, but
these aren't methods anymore,
these are properties that you can get,
so these are getters.
So that can be confusing sometimes.
But as you saw when I did that,
here we go, the MDM reference.
It's just pointing to the official
response object that's
widely available in every browser and
every runtime.
So again, Next JS is just using this,
it's not doing anything else.
Cool, any other questions on middleware?
>> Speaker 7: I can see potentially,
requests coming from the clients have
a middleware that as your authorization
header to all your requests and
then requests that
are coming to these URLs.
You check if the authorization
header is present and if it's valid.
>> Scott Moss: Yep, a hundred percent.
Yep, I mean there really isn't anything
you can't do in the middleware, honestly,
that's the power of it.
You can literally run
compute on the edge and
it's like you're only limited by
the resources in which this has access to.
So again, as long as you use
like a serverless storage,
you can't use the file
system stuff like that.
You can do some pretty crazy stuff.
You can build a whole app, I mean,
I could return JSX in here if I wanted to.
Don't do it in here, but you could,
in fact, you could go to
any one of these pages and you can
change this to a different runtime.
I forgot if it's actual called runtime,
or not, or something like that.
There's a flag that you can return that
will put this in a different environment,
which is the same with just
returning JSX in here.
So yeah, some frameworks are just
an abstraction around this.
Cloudflare workers is literally this,
but as a product.